let's start with the islamist militant
group that carried out this attack who
are Hamas well its name is an Arabic
acronym for Islamic resistance movement
it's sworn to Israel's destruction and
its base is Gaza it's been in control
there since 2007 though as it's not held
an election since it's hard to gauge
what support it has and this weekend
President Biden called Hamas a terrorist
organization in fact the EU the UK and
the us all categorize it this way in the
region Iran is hamas's primary backer
indeed Hamas has told the BBC Iran gave
direct backing for this weekend's attack
Hamas also has close relations with the
militant group Hezbollah in Lebanon
which shares a border with Israel and
Israel knows all of this and more about
Hamas which leads us to the next
question why didn't Israeli intelligence
know about the attack the analyst Colin
Clark describes how Israel has
worldclass Intelligence collection and
Analysis capabilities that includes
using informers in Gaza and surveillance
drones above it in the words of one
former US counterterrorism specialist
it's almost inconceivable how they
missed this but they did and working out
why is now a matter of urgency our next
question is whether this is different to
previous escalations serious violent
escalations between Israel and the
Palestinians are not uncommon but the
scale of this ham attack makes it
different Israeli territory was
infiltrated hundreds of Israelis have
died as many as a hundred hostages were
taken Saturday was one of the deadliest
days in Israel's history the un's Middle
East peace Envoy says this is a
dangerous precipice and I appeal to all
to pull back from the brink this is
different and the scale of the attack
leads us to how is Israel responding
well already prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu talks of a long and difficult
War there are Israeli air strikes in
Gaza hundreds of Palestinians have died
military vehicles are heading to the
Gaza border and tens of thousands of
Israeli reservists are being called up
as well as that the US defense secretary
Lloyd Austin has announced that
additional equipment and resources
including Munitions will be sent
Israel's allies are offering solidarity
and help and while right now the focus
is on the immediate threat from Hamas
Israel and its allies will also know
that in the long term this attack will
reshape how they seek to maintain
Israel's security